#Start an Event Listener on a Peer
An Event Listener is a program which integrates with a nominated peer and a chaincode and listens to events subscribed. The events occurred on a peer can be either be 'Block' related or custom events which are programmed and invoked within the chaincode.

Upon receiving an event, the Event Listener has the capability to act on it and perform a certain task. For the moment, the event listener programmed as part of this PoC has the capability to print event details on the screen and communicate the event details to a remote server.

**Note:** In order to receive customised events generated by the chaincode, the current blockchain fabric needs to be upgraded to the latest fabric code located [here](https://gerrit.hyperledger.org/).

In order to spawn a peer listener, please follow the steps below.

1. Start a peer network following the instructions [here](https://github.com/ANZ-Blockchain-Lab/Corres-Bank-POC/blob/master/docs/membershipService.md).
2. In a new terminal log into your Vagrant Box.
3. Execute the following command;
`cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric/Corres-Bank-POC/POC01/events/`.
4. Optionally compile the event listener using the command below.
`go build nostro-listener.go`
5. Start the listener using the following command.
`./nostro-listener -send-events=true -chaincode-name=<insert name> -events-address=172.17.0.2:31315`.

In the above command;
		
- **send-events** Flag : sets whether the listener should send the events captured to a remote server or not. If this flag is set to `true` the events listener will send the events to `localhost`. In the future this could be another server which is capable of exposing a REST API.

- **chaincode-name** Flag : sets the name of the Chaincode to which the event listener should subscribe to receive custom chaincode events.

- **events-address** Flag : sets the address of the Peer which will be emitting events. The port `31315` is the default port for emitting events, which can be overridden through `peer.validator.events.address`.
